## [0.32.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sinclair/typebox/v/0.32.0)

## Overview

Revision 0.32.0 focuses primarily on enhancements to the Value module. It includes two new functions, Default and Clean which can be used for pre and post processing values before and after validation. It also includes a new namespace called ValueGuard which provides type safe guards for JavaScript primitive and object values.

This revision also carries out updates to existing Value functions, and relaxes some of the rules around Types requiring type registration (limiting this requirement to only operations that type check during processing). Other updates include general refactoring and maintaince of existing Value functions.

This revision contains no breaking changes.

## Default

Revision 0.32.0 adds a new Default function for preprocessing values prior to valdiation. This function accepts a schema + value, and will return a new value patched with any specified default values. This function works similar to Ajv's `useDefaults`, but is explicitly called rather than configured and does not mutate the original value. It works exclusively on the optional `default` schema annotation.

The Default function makes a "best effort" attempt to patch values with defaults if it can, but respects any internal value passed on the original value except for `undefined`. This approach is intended to help ensure the caller passing an incorrect value is informed of the incorrect value post validation.

The following shows usage and mapping behaviors.

```typescript
const T = Type.Object({
  x: Type.Number({ default: 100 }),
  y: Type.Number({ default: 200 })
}, {
  default: {}
})

Value.Default(T, undefined)              // { x: 100, y: 200 }  - undefined, use default {} into { x: 100, y: 200 }
Value.Default(T, null)                   // null                - (null respected)
Value.Default(T, {})                     // { x: 100, y: 200 }  - empty {} into default x, y
Value.Default(T, { x: 1 })               // { x: 1,   y: 200 }  - retain x, default y
Value.Default(T, { x: 1, y: 2 })         // { x: 1,   y: 2 }    - retain x, y
Value.Default(T, { x: 1, y: null })      // { x: 1,   y: null } - retain x, y (null respected)
```
The Default function performs no type checking at all and may return incomplete or incorrect values. Because of this, the Default function returns `unknown` and should be checked prior to use. Applications can setup a validation pipeline in the following way.
```ts
import { TSchema, Static, Type } from '@sinclair/typebox'

function Parse<T extends TSchema>(schema: T, value: unknown): Static<T> {
  const withDefaults = Value.Default(schema, value)
  const valid = Value.Check(schema, withDefaults)
  if(!valid) throw new Error(Value.Errors(schema, withDefaults).First()!)
  return withDefaults
}

const A = Parse(Type.Object({            // const A = { x: 1, y: 0 }
  x: Type.Number({ default: 0 }),
  y: Type.Number({ default: 0 }),
}), { x: 1 })
```

## Clean

## ValueGuard