# 1.1.0

---

Version 1.1.0 

## Contents

Version 1.1.0 is a continuation of Version 1.0.0 which seeks to refine the 1.0 type system. The focus of 1.1 is to narrow the Value.* and the Compiler API's, and move out non-critical functions (such as Codecs) into a seperate installable packages.

The goals of 1.1 are to reduce and stablize the TypeBox API surface to avoid future breaking changes, and move less stable functionality (such as Codecs) into seperate packages that can evolve seperately to the TypeBox mainline.

## Base

The Base type has been removed. This type was introduced in 1.0 in an effort to support Standard Schema (where Base was originally an implementation of Standard Schema). This type has proven to cause conflicts with TypeBox's internal compositional system, and users leveraging the type where experiencing opaque composition problems where class instances of Base would be transformed into plain schema objects (losing class methods, and thus validation capabilities in the process).

Attempts were made to augment Base with additional functions for class instance Clone, Extends guards for Conditional types and evaluation, and other functions to help Base integrate with TypeBox's TS emulation system, but the complexity involved was deemed too complex.

## Assign

The Type.Options function has been renamed to Type.Assign. This change was made to avoid naming conflicts as Options is a commonly named type. The change to Assign better reflects the function as Assign is expressed as a TypeBox action.

```typescript
const T = Type.Assign(Type.String(), {
  format: 'email'
})

const S = Type.Script(`Assign<string, {
  format: 'email'
}>`)
```

## Codec

```typescript
import { Codec } from '@typebox/codec'
```

## ReadonlyObject

The ReadonlyType has been renamed to ReadonlyObject


